Now we move to another Apache product for
large scale text data
searching called Solr.
Systems like Solr, and
its underlying text indexing engine, are
typically designed for search problems.
So they would typically be
part of a search engine.
But before we talk about Solr or
large scale text, we need to first
appreciate some fundamental challenges
when it comes to storing,
indexing, and matching text data.
The basic challenge comes from
the numerous ways in which
a text string may vary, making it
hard to define what a good match is.
Let us show some of these challenges.
Remember in each case,
we're asking whether the strings shown on
either side of the double
tilde sign should match.
The first issue is about spelling
variations and capitalization.
The second issue relates
structured strings.
Where different parts of a string
represent different kind of information.
We have seen this before for file paths,
URLs, and like in this case, product IDs.
The problem is that the searcher may
not always know the structure or
my job on misposition,
the internal punctuations.
The next problem is very common with
proper nouns which are represented in
various ways, including dropping a part of
the string, picking up only the initials.
But consider the last variation, should
BH Obama really match the full name?
The next example is about
frequently used synonyms.
If the document has one of the synonyms,
while the query uses another,
should they match?
Example 5 illustrates
a very common problem.
People use abbreviations all the time.
If we look at text and social media and
instant messaging, we see a much
wider variety of abbreviations.
How well should they met with
the real correct version of the term?
Now problem six is a special
case of problem five.
Many long nouns are shortened
because we take the first initial
letter of each significant word.
We say significant because we
drop words like of as shown here.
This is called initialism.
Just so you know, when an initialism
can be said like a real word,
it's called an acronym.
Thus IBM is an initialization,
but NATO is an acronym.
Now problem seven and
problem eight show two
different situation where we first must
decide what to do with the period sign.
In the first case, we should not
find a match because students and
American are in two different
sentences punctuated by a period sign.
But in the second case we should
find a match because the period
does not designate a sentence boundary.
Lucene, the engine on which Solr is
built is effectively not a database,
but a modern inverted index.
What's an inverted index?
Let's first define a vocabulary
as a collection of terms.
Where a term may be a single word or
it can be multiple words.
It can a single term or
it can be a collection of synonyms.
But how would a search
engine know what a term is?
We'll revisit this question
in a couple of slides.
For now, let's just say that if we
have a corpus of documents, we can
extract most of the terms and construct
a vocabulary for that collection.
We can then define occurrence, as a list
containing all the information necessary
for each term in the vocabulary.
It would include information like,
which documents have the term?
The positions in the document
where the term occurs.
We can then go on to compute the count of
the term in the document and the corpus.
Referring back to a previous module
in this course, we can also compute
the term frequency and inverse
document frequency for the collection.
An inverted index is
essentially an index which for
every term stores at least the ID of
the document where the term occurs.
Practically, other computed numbers or
properties associated with the terms
will also be included in the index.
Solr is an open source
enterprise search platform.
The heart of Solr is its search
functionality built for full text search.
However, Solr provides much
more than tech search.
It can take any structured document,
even CSV files
which can be broken up into fields,
and can index each field separately.
Full text indexes where text columns
are supplemented by indexes for
other types of data, including numeric
data, dates, geographic coordinates, and
fields where domains are limited
to an emergent set of values.
Solr provides other facilities
like faceted search and
highlighting of terms that match a query.
Now if you're not familiar
with the term faceted search,
let's look at the screenshot
from amazon.com.
I performed a search on the string,
Dell laptop.
Consider the highlighted
part of the image.
Each laptop record carries a lot of
attributes like the display size,
the processor speed,
the amount of memory, and so forth.
These attributes can be put into builds
like processor type has Intel i5, i7, etc.
Faceted search essentially extracts
the individual values of these fields and
displays them back to the user, usually
with a count of the number of records.
We see this in the upper
part of the marked portion,
which says there are 5619
laptops per 411 tablets.
These are called facets.
If a user clicks on a facet,
documents with only those values,
that's just the tablets,
will be presented back to the user.
Now let's get back to the question
of what a term is, and
how a Solr system should know it.
Solr allows the system designer to
specify how to parse a document,
by instructing how to tokenize
a document and how to filter it.
Tokenization is the process of
breaking down the characters read.
For example, one can break
the stream at white spaces, and
get all the words as tokens.
Then, it can filter out the punctuation
like the period, the apostrophe, and so
on, just to get the pure words.
The code snippet on the right
essentially achieves this.
It uses a standard tokenizer that gets
the words with immediate punctuation.
The first filter removes the punctuations.
The second filter turns
everything into lowercase.
And the third filter uses
a synonym file to ensure that
all the synonyms get the same
token after ignoring the case.
The last filter removes common
English words like a and the.
While a similar process would need to
happen when we get the query string.
It will also need to go through a
tokenization and token filtering process.
In the query analyzer example, there
are six filters within the tokenizer.
We use a pattern tokenizer which
will remove the white spaces and
periods and semi-colon.
The common grams filter creates
tokens out of pairs of terms, and
in doing so, makes sure that words
in the stopword file are used.
So if we have the string,
the cat, the term the should
not be ignored in this filter.
Now, the filters here
are executed in order.
After the common grams
filter is already done,
the next filter removes all
the stopwords in the file.
The fifth filter makes sure that if
the queries coming from a web form,
all the HTML characters are stripped off.
Finally, the remaining words are stemmed,
so that runs and
running in the query would match
the word run in the document.
We'll end this section with a discussion
on Solr queries, that is searches.
We present a CSV file with nine
records and seven attributes.
We issue queries against
the system by posing a web query.
In these examples, we show some of
the queries one can post to the system.
This will be covered in more detail
during the hands-on session.
Just notice that the q equal to is a query
and the fl is what you want to back.